The world is going to be very skeptical
of tech and tech companies that say
trust us. We've got it. The future is
going to be glorious. You kind of have
to deliver tangible benefits because
it's too important this time around.
It's too much of the economy for it not
to be the case. True ambition is about
making the impossible possible. I take
great inspiration from sort of the
people who are managing the Azure
network. We built in the last 15 months
more Azure capacity than we built in the
first 15 years. I mean, it's crazy. Our
job is not to do Azure networking. Our
job is to build the agentic system that
does Azure networking. Right? The way to
get to information, way to educate
yourself, way to continuously keep
yourself updated has changed so much.
Maybe the next big startup could be
someone who builds a new university, a
new pedagogy even of how to get someone
to go through a curriculum and find
economic opportunity that's highly
valuable.
>> Please welcome Swix, Zaragoza, Alod
Gill, and Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer of Microsoft, Satya Nadella.
>> Hello.
>> It's on.
>> Uh I'm so excited to be here. Welcome to
a crossover episode of No Priors in Lane
Space with Satya Nadella. Um
congratulations on an amazing build.
>> No, thank you so much and it's great to
be with both of you. I listen to both of
you or both the podcast all the time.
It's great to be on it.
>> Thank you so much.
>> So, you were talking about um these
amazing uh announcements from across the
Microsoft estate all morning for I think
3 hours. What is the uh what's the most
important reflection or takeaway you
have?
>> I I'd say there are
uh perhaps the the biggest one for me is
let's sort of conceptualize this more as
an ecosystem play as opposed to a single
model or even a single platform, right?
I mean
yeah, whatever I at least for me having
grown up at Microsoft, having seen
whatever four major platform shifts uh I
sort of fall into that uh
uh camp where a platform is defined by
fundamentally its ability to create more
value about the platform versus what's
captured in the platform. And so if you
you view what's happening right now, I
think this morning's keynote was
how can any company
whether it's an AI-native company or a
traditional enterprise company
participate as a first-class participant
where they can point to AI they create.
Right? It's not that they don't use
other people's AI. Of course, they will.
But to me, what's the path? What's the
recipe? How do I do it? What does the
stack look like? What does the tooling
look like? What is valuable? How do you
do that? That's it. That's sort of our
job to do.
Yeah.
>> Ecosystem strategy is uh very
complicated, right? Because you end up
building certain components, partnering
for certain components, supporting them.
You just announced this big suite of
models. Like tell us a little bit about
the uh training strategy for Microsoft.
>> Yeah, so
so the thing that we wanted to do with
the MAI models was to build and as
Mustafa talked about first of all, a
great lineage, right? Starting with
pre-training
uh with very good data quality,
uh doing all the ablations, making sure
because in in some sense it's become
even harder to build a clean lineage
model because there's so much stuff out
there
uh that you truly need to ablate out to
be able to have a fantastic pre-trained
model. In fact, that's one of the
challenges of a lot of the open weight
models is they look great on one
benchmark or two, but they're not great
on practice. So, that's why in fact,
even in the RFDs are
pretty gone really excited about these
MAI models because how the heck can a
small 5B model hill climb and it goes
back a little bit to what I think is
ultimately the key thing to do, which is
try to pursue finding that cognitive
core. So, to me, starting with a clean
lineage, then creating that ability for
companies to be able to use this, right?
Not just as a generalist, but to create
their own specialist by building this
hill climbing scaffold around it, right?
So, it's not just the model, but you
have a hill climbing scaffold around it,
then
you will start building your RLE. You
will start collecting the traces. Most
importantly, you'll have private emails
because we know all the emails out there
are good, interesting, but they're not
really that critical at this point
because they all can be maxed. And so,
the point is each company will have its
own private email. And so,
that end-to-end platform story
around our models is sort of what I
think is interesting. And then the one
other thing, Sarah, since you brought
that up is
I do feel there's a new frontier. Like
people talk about the frontier and
you're operating at the frontier.
Interestingly enough, if you add a
little temporality to it,
you can use, let's say, in in in fact,
that the Lando Lakes demo we showed was
pretty cool. We used whatever GPT 55,
right? Then you collected a bunch of
traces, and then you took a 5B reasoning
model and achieved higher. So, that is
another aspect of what it means to
appear I'm know, operate at the
frontier.
>> Yeah. I I think uh I first of all have
to congratulate you on basically
building a frontier neural lab inside of
Microsoft in two years. Um I'm
wondering, you know, you have all this
AI strategy that you're rolling out. I'm
running what do you know now that you
wish you would tell yourself two years
ago with a two three years ago. Three
years for the Jensen partnership, two
years for
uh MAI.
>> Yeah, I mean, I think the the thing when
that I reflect quite a bit, right, which
is sort of obviously I got into all this
when I got excited by the the scaling
laws paper and you know, when you know,
even the opening AI partnership came
about when those folks said, hey, we're
going to really throw a lot of computer
transformers. Uh and they've helped,
right? The thing that I always look back
and say, wow, these things
um do have capability that they're
climbing up with I mean, this you know,
this crude way of saying it is
intelligence is log of compute kind of
works.
Now, what I think we underestimated
perhaps is the real world complexity
of deploying these so that they actually
deliver the value in the real world,
right? So, the outcomes as measured by
any benchmark
is interesting, important, but the true
eval is when people out there are able
to do unique things that they only can
value.
And it's very measurable.
Right? That I wish we had sort of even
like had more in our consciousness,
right? Which is as an industry because
right now, I think
when people say, wow, I don't want a
token max, it's an artifact of us not
having thought ourselves as an industry
that we are using tokens to create value
every step of the way. So, I think
that's kind of what I wish we had gotten
there, but I'm glad we are here.
>> What are some other use cases that
you've seen that have created the most
value for your customers because I know
that people talk a lot about code and I
think it's pretty clear that that's
something that's having very large scale
impact. Are there other areas that you
find in common that your customers are
really benefiting
>> Yeah, I think to your point, obviously
coding is now God, but it's interesting
by the way you lot is to even talk about
the coding, right? Which is coding is
work so well that we now have to rebuild
the IDE, right? I mean, it's kind of
nuts to see what we saw large is like,
"Oh my God, I have these hundred agent
sessions. I the cognitive load it
transfers back to me as a human is so
excessive that now I need a new UI."
Oh, by the way, like the the chat as the
only artifact is also impossible. So,
that's why we need a canvas. So, it's
kind of interesting for all the things
about where is software needed or where
is UI needed? You kind of need that even
for code, right? In a fully agentic
world. But that said, one of the things
that we are starting to see we started
seeing with co-work, but even some of
the work we showed with auto
autopilot,
right? On what you see with claws, is a
good one because if you sort of think
about a lot of human capital is doing
the glue work, right? If you now can
augment that with tokens/agents
that are long-running, durable,
right? Then your ability to scale even
what is still judgment and glue work
gets amplified like coding does.
So, you can like I'm positive that 6
months from now we'll all be saying,
"Oh, wow. Like all through night the
night there was a bunch of stuff that
all these autopilots that I have working
on my behalf with my delegated
authority, so to speak, right? I can
sort of given even my identity did a
bunch of work. Then of course, I'll need
my new IDE to say, "What did you do?
Like I might did I do this work?" and so
on. So, I think that that's where
compressing of workflows,
completing of tasks, that's where I
think a lot of the value gets created.
>> I think you raise a really interesting
point, which is there's the actual agent
is doing the code and then there's the
harness around it.
And that's the environment, that's the
context, that's everything you're
setting up as a developer around
actually a coding agent. What is the
harness for the enterprise? Is there an
equivalent concept for broader
productivity work or how do you think
about that concept sort of generally?
>> That's right. So so in some sense, you
kind of want the harness to define the
models, the the data,
and the tools. And so that you have a
loop across those three. And so what we
are trying to first of all make sure is
each of our products that we build,
right? Whether it's GitHub Copilot or
the security copilot stuff we showed
with M dash or even the discovery for
science, it doesn't matter. All of them
are multimodal harnesses with tools
access so that you can do this
progressive disclosure of tools even so
that they're token efficient. And then
you're feeding it with very rich context
because that's sort of the other hard
lesson we've learned in the last two
years is oh my god, the amount of work
you need to do to prep the context layer
such that your plan can execute in the
most efficient way is where the magic
is. So we have in our case, we have the
GitHub harness which essentially we're
using across all our products. It's
available in foundry and we're open like
you can use your llama harness, whatever
or you can use the
you know, any open harness or any
harness of yours and train with your
tools and multiple models and your
context. And so that's the pitch because
right now a lot of dialogue is
hey, if I train the harness plus tools
and the model together, you get evals.
And what we are proving out is and the
best example of that is what we did with
M dash, right? Because when it launched,
it found bugs or vulnerabilities that
were not found by Mythos.
Uh
and so there is existence proof I would
claim that you can have a multi-modal
harness
uh that can in fact be more
uh performant in the real world.
>> So the premise behind the uh training at
the independent frontier labs is really,
you know, we're going to have these
models and we'll have an API business
and we'll support enterprises and
startups, but
a first-party product, be it
productivity or code or search, drives
the majority of revenue. That's a
different value equation than you're
describing. I think with the Microsoft
ecosystem, uh if if that's the case,
tell me if it's the case, uh cuz
obviously you have first-party products
and you have enablement products. Um
what is the role of the develop Like
what's going to be hard and the set of
skills and the value capture the
developer has in that world?
>> Yeah, so I think that there's always
going to be the case that
someone who's super successful
and as a platform builder can also have
first-party products.
It was true with Windows, it was true uh
with uh the the SaaS side and the cloud
side as well with us and others and so
on. But the thing that is is it should
not be a limiter to other people
achieving that same success, right? That
I think is the core difference, which is
the the network effects this time around
around intelligence are such because
they learn from data and not really lots
of It's just a few samples that you have
to see to understand what's novel about
something.
So that's why the game becomes how to
protect. So that's why I would say every
company
having private E valves may be the
biggest IP, right? I think about it.
Like what's that private E valve that
you can then use even a frontier model
to hill climb on and not leak the traces
may be one of the biggest drivers
uh of IP. Like so in other words another
acid test is you have an eval that's
private. You're using
model A. Can you switch it to model B
and you know climb up? If you can then
you're in control. If you can't you're
not in control. And that's where even
the harness decision becomes super
important, right? So therefore having an
open harness, letting all models come
in, having your evals, your contacts,
your tools help you hill climb I think
is the skills that an AI native startup
needs, a SaaS company needs, or every
enterprise needs.
>> Yeah, I think in a very real way your
Microsoft historically as an operating
systems company and then becoming a
cloud company maybe like the third act
is that your harness or evals
company. Whatever whatever the the sort
of conglomerate of concepts that you
want to put together.
I I I think like enabling every company
to have like frontier intelligence or
what what I forget the the exact term
that you used
is the is the mission, right? That is
that is the platform promise that you
build with us. You will get your
intelligence for your data.
>> That's it. That to me that is the like
if there was one tagline for this entire
developer conference is
can everybody operate at the frontier
with their frontier intelligence, right?
To me that is so important because
otherwise I I don't know how you achieve
stable equilibrium, right? Which is how
do I then go and say well my company is
going to have a terminal value because I
now know how to continuously compound on
top of what's a platform that gets
better, right? So when like Windows
obviously came out Adobe built, Autodesk
built,
or even like take what Jensen said. We
built DX and he built, you know, CUDA on
top of it.
Right? I mean, I always say to Jensen,
"God, I got the short end of that."
Right? I wish
we had recognized it. But nevertheless,
but that idea that you can build a
platform layer that someone else can
then extend out
and build their own intelligence layer
in this case, I think is everything.
Right? Without it, why have a developer
conference? I can just come and have you
all sort of just worship at the altar of
one model. But that's not a developer
conference.
>> Uh backstage, we had a discussion about
what is IP or what is the value in a
company. It used to be the length of
human experience at a company. And now
it's this other thing, which is the
evals, the
experience in sort of applying agents to
the company. Here, I just want you to
like flesh that out a little bit more
cuz
>> Yeah, it's a great way to frame it,
right? Because you have At the end of
the day, every company is going to have
both the human capital that is still
going to be super valuable because
humans
and their ability to find the gaps that
exist at all times is going to be the
way we all will create value. Right? I
mean, so I'm definitely in the camp that
this is going to be about expressing new
forms of human agency and ambition even
as token capital goes up. Right? So,
let's say a
any corporation has lots of tokens and
lot of human capital. The question is,
how do you compound the two? So, if you
have a like if you take in teams, I have
a bunch of agents doing work and a bunch
of humans doing work and the traces
between those, that is really important
context of how that enterprise is
creating value.
Then, that goes back to train not a
generalist model, but to train the train
the company veteran agent. Uh right?
That is super valuable again, again,
right? Which is when a company goes and
says it should in fact go on to the
balance sheet is how I think about it,
right? That's how In fact, there may be
like human capital was never possible to
go put on a balance sheet
because you didn't know how to capture
the tacit knowledge. Whereas now I think
you can with the agents that have
learned through the through time through
all the traces.
So that's what at least we think will
happen.
>> I think the SEC is going to have to have
accounting standards for token
expertise.
>> You're talking about the equilibrium
state
and a stable equilibrium where companies
have this compounding value and can see
terminal value for themselves. Another
challenge to you know the considered
equilibrium of okay, there are
applications and workflows that are sort
of common to a vertical or a horizontal
and this was like the generation of SAS
companies and you know Microsoft has
lots of SAS properties as well and then
there are things that are very specific
to every enterprise that they're
differentiated against. I'm sure you
have heard much and participated much of
the debate about the end of software
because all these workflows are are
cheap to generate now. Do you think the
equilibrium looks different between what
agents get built in enterprises versus
in their vendors in the future?
>> Yeah, so I think what's happening there
is see we we had a particular way we
captured
I would say workflow
in apps, right? Because we built up a
data model, right? We schematized some
part of some business process.
>> Mhm.
>> We then built a bunch of business logic.
>> Yep.
>> And then we put a bunch of UI on top of
it, right? So that's kind of what every
SAS company
>> little configuration.
>> 20 20 years that was
>> And that was it. So interestingly enough
now you kind of get to re-litigate that
vertical stacking, right? So I still
think for example that data model that
you build underneath every SAS
application is super good, right? It's
like why reinvent it? Like I my general
ledger better be a general ledger. I
don't need new schema creation. In fact
that entity relationship
is actually pretty good robust thing
that I want to feed.
>> And you want to be stable.
>> That's right. Then same thing with
business logic. Right, if you look at
we have this product called Power BI,
right? It is like dashboards galore
people created.
The beauty underneath that dashboard is
a very rich semantic model, right?
Someone took the pain to create a
dashboard and do all the measures.
And you want that that's business logic,
right? I want that to be available to
me. So, I think the challenge of the
SaaS business model is we packaged one
way. We now have to learn how to
unbundle these things and rebundle in
new ways and discover new business
models, right? I mean, if you look at it
what's happening today with Microsoft
365 is a great example.
Right, we have this thing called Work
IQ. In fact, what we are realizing is oh
my god, like you know, if you look at it
in fact, there's a historical parallel
to, right? We sold first Exchange and
SharePoint and
you know, before Teams we had a thing
called Link Server and what have you.
And we thought oh, that's all going to
move to the cloud, but little did we
realize that oh, the number of people
who will use servers in the cloud is 10x
100x, right? Because people were not
buying servers, they were just buying a
subscription.
The same thing is now happening with
M365 because with Work IQ
we have exposed what is perhaps the most
important database in a company that
never got used as a database because it
is only captive to our apps, right? It
is all email operated on it, Teams
operated on it, Word, Excel, PowerPoint,
SharePoint. But now, like this is one of
the coolest things I get to do with Work
IQ. I go to a GitHub repo and I say,
"Hey, I attended a bunch of design
meetings last week related to this repo.
Can you capture all that and tell me
what changes I should make. I mean,
think about that. Right, it literally
can go look at all those transcripts,
come back with a plan to change a code
base. Right, previously you could never
have thought of using M365 for something
like that. So, the value creation
opportunity now in the agent world is in
fact 10x more. But, it does require us
to have, for example, there's going to
be usage around M365, right? Which is
going to be perhaps more than even the
end users, right? to even re-architect.
Like, in fact, like what I used to serve
an inbox or a mailbox cannot be used to
serve an agent.
Uh and so, that's sort of what we're
doing.
>> I don't believe in like permanent
business models for any of these
domains, but in the near term, do you
have a prediction between
uh you know, outcomes-based pricing,
token-based pricing,
enterprise bundles?
>> Yeah, the way I think about this is
always we have had like let's even take
the per user pricing.
>> Mhm.
>> The per user pricing is really an
artifact of someone creating a budget
needing certainty.
Right, because it's the most important
thing like somebody wants a budget.
>> Mhm.
>> They need a per user. And and per user
is just a set of entitlements to usage.
Right, that's kind of what it is. And
so, the way is if the first bundling
will be take some usage, bundle it into
per user stacks, and you know, then sell
subscriptions. So, subscriptions I think
are going to be there, per user is going
to be there. Then, the next big thing
will be consumption. So, people will say
I want consumption. And it's also
possible that people will say I don't
even want to pay for any of the
subscriptions or the consumptions
outcome. But, remember,
most people love outcomes until they
have an outcome. Because once you have
an outcome, it's like giving away
royalty, right? I mean, like I I've
talked to customers who love, you know,
outcome-based pricing, and I say I'm all
in until they oh my God, like what are
you talking about? You're sharing in my
outcome? No, no, no, I want you to go
back to per user pricing and I want you
to consumption price, right? So, I think
that debate will go on.
But and all all the all of these
business models have a particular time
and a place versus one to rule them all.
And if anything, if you're a SaaS vendor
or you're a platform vendor, having that
flexibility and quite frankly, we face
this with GitHub, right? We just
recently announced a per user pricing on
GitHub.
Because little you know,
GitHub Copilot was constructed at a per
user level before we understood even
the intensity of usage of agents, right?
It was an interactive way for a
developer to use code complete, maybe
task. It is not like oh, I launched
10,000 sort of agents that are going on
all day, right? So, that is what the
adjustment is about. So, now that we
really want There will always be a per
user. But they will have to be a
consumption meter.
>> How do you think about the durability of
SaaS more generally? One thing I've
observed is in a lot of enterprises
internally, there will be teams that
almost have agent euphoria. They're so
excited about the explosion of things
they can build that they're trying to
rebuild a lot of applications or going
to their SaaS vendors and saying we're
not going to work with you anymore or
we're considering an internal project.
And it seems like in 6 to 9 months,
maybe some of those people will come
back and say actually we we can't
rebuild everything. How do you think
about what's durable in this world and
what isn't?
>> I think I think we have to go through
one full budget cycle on this to really
see the uh
uh
the sort of the emergence of the
equilibrium. Because at the end of the
day,
there's marginal cost to even generating
the app, right? So, in fact, it can be
even a a simple way to say it like if
you should always acquire something if
the marginal cost of building and
maintaining
uh something on your own is higher. Uh
right, that should be like it's a
quantifiable right a quantifiable thing.
And the maintenance part is important.
Right, even like you got to remember
like hey, you know, all the security
stuff that now AI will find you better
fix them too fast. Of course there's a
coding agent to help you with but then
that burns tokens. Right, so whose
responsibility is it? It's kind of like
a a cycle that you've got to think
through. And I think we have gone
through the excitement that I can
generate a lot of software. I think the
next thing would be what software do I
really want to generate? What software
do I want to use from others? How do I
compose these two into some agentic
workflow that I have agency over? Right,
because I think there'll be very little
tolerance for anybody who is inflexible
at the vendor level.
But at the same time, I think that
anyone who has got that flexibility
shows up, delivers the value will be
back at again. Right, we're selling
software but we're just different
business models in fact.
>> Speaking about building software,
one of my favorite moments from I think
a previous build maybe one or two years
ago was they had a big they they there
was a section of you building your own
software. I'm curious if you're building
anything now.
>> Yeah, so I I think the you know, first
of all, let's face it. Right, building
software
has made it possible for even the
incompetence of a CEO of a company like
ours,
you can build. So thank god. But that
said, I I I I do feel
that
you know, something like
um
GitHub Copilot to me and especially the
new sessions app or the new app has just
made it so much more possible for you to
have agency over artifacts that you felt
you couldn't touch before. Right, so to
for me as a CEO even to go to a code
base,
to be able to learn about it. Like I
remember joining Microsoft long back,
you know, first and then you say, "Well,
everybody had to go in and look at, you
know, whatever Cutler's, Malek, or what
have you to learn how to do good C C++
code."
Um so, now that ability to be more full
stack up and down is so good. But, that
doesn't mean every one of us should be
doing the same thing. The question is,
how do you then have the ability to
inspect things, learn things, see
things?
Um I think it's just so much more. And
so, to me, what I'm building a lot of is
these long-running Foundry Agents.
Uh right, so there's autopilots. So, the
easiest thing is to me, I think I just
built one uh even last week where
the idea was, "Hey, can I have an agent
that is continuously monitoring,
essentially, my own chief of staff
autopilot, right?" We're going to have
that, obviously, in uh Scout. That's
what uh uh we showed. But, it is so easy
and trivial to build. I took work IQ. I
said, "Take work IQ, go
uh and build a Foundry long-running
agent, uh store all the memory in um
uh using Raven, right? Basically, have
my back-end as a service." And lo and
behold, it built it. And not only built
it, I could say, "Publish to Teams." And
it published the damn thing to Teams.
So, the ability
uh to have a you know, some end-to-end
project like this complete is just
pretty miraculous.
>> you think uh that impacts the different
types of engineering roles that exist in
the future? Because right now, I think
there's, you know, a dozen different
types of engineers that you can be from
QA, front-end, et cetera. You know,
there's a big swath. I've heard some
people argue that in 4 or 5 years, we'll
basically end up with four engineering
roles. It'll be people who are managing
agents. It'll be forward deployed
engineers or FDEs. It'll be security
engineers. And then people working on
large-scale infrastructure for a small
number of services. And then everything
else just collapses into the agentic
world.
>> Yeah, do you think that's a correct view
of the world?
>> Yeah, I mean I think I think we'll have
to experiment our way through it. But
what you said is what there are some
very at scale things. At LinkedIn, they
did structurally change
uh and you know, basically built up a
new discipline called full stack
builder, right? So they went and said,
"Hey, let's bring uh people from design
and product management, front-end
engineering, all put them together. Uh
but also have an edge, right? It's not
like the design person still doesn't
have the design edge or the front-end
person doesn't have the front-end edge,
but you can give yourself bigger scope
in role so that you're not confined to
one role. Um and then
equally, infrastructure has become very
critical, right? So in other words, like
I mean, RLEs, I mean, one thing we've
realized is even for the Excel team, for
example, building the RLE in which a
reward can be learned is actually one of
the hardest sort of infrastructure
problems. Uh and so you kind of need
even new talent, right? Distributed
systems people even in what was
considered an end user app team
uh because it's a different skill set.
So yes, infrastructure science is the
other one, obviously. Um so I think
we'll see how these evolve, right?
Where's the real I mean, always the
world will have a bunch of specialists.
Um
you know, I think the generalist role
is going to be the most exciting, right?
Because the leverage of a generalist
um is where we're going to see the
maximum returns, right? When when you
said, "Hey, I coding." I'm now a general
like what I basically translated
knowledge work,
right? Which I did, where I created a
Word document or a spreadsheet or even
uh and now I can build an app. Right?
It's in the same sentence
uh right? That idea that, "Oh wow, my
generalist skills have gotten higher
leverage, I think is what we're going to
see across the board.
>> Music to the ears of CEOs and VCs that
are like a little dangerous and a lot of
time.
>> Golden age for idea people.
>> Idea people with a lot of agency. If you
take that idea of personal agency and
you just zoom it out to the
organizational context.
Um
Uh my partner Mike Rynal who actually
started his career at Microsoft just
wrote an essay where one of the big
takeaways is it's an age where you can
be much more ambitious and you need to
be given the pace of the environment and
how quickly actually users and companies
are open to adopting new technologies.
Um how do you think about I feel silly
asking this of somebody running a you
know trillion dollar plus company
already, but how do you think about how
Microsoft can be more ambitious now?
>> It's a great question. Um I think um
I think the the thing in these type of
transitions
is to have a conceptual model
of how
work can change
to go after outcomes that you could
hardly imagine previously, right? In
fact, Kevin Scott has this nice line,
right? Which is um when you can make the
impossible like when you're making hard
things easier
that's sort of one point of leverage but
true ambition is about making the
impossible possible.
So
now the thing that is missing a little
bit in all of our organizations is what
is that new conceptual model of what can
we build? What was impossible and what
can we build?
And I'll give you one example of this,
right? Which is I take great inspiration
from sort of the people who are managing
the Azure net network.
And they came to the this is from even
last year.
You know, we were scaling. You saw that
I I talked about sort of how we built in
the last 15 months more Azure capacity
than we built in the first 15 years. I
mean, it's crazy. Right, it's pretty
wild. And it's the same team. So, they
saw that and they said, "Bob, this just
isn't going to work if we don't
reconceptualize our work."
So, they built Essentially, they said,
"Our job is not to do Azure networking.
Our job is to build the agentic system
does that does Azure networking." Right,
these are the folks managing the 500
plus fiber operators managing the van,
right? All over. And fiber operations
ultimately is a physical operation.
Things get cut. Things get you know,
have to be repaired. You know, we have
fancy words called devops and so on.
Basically, emails are coming in and you
got to go respond to them, take care of
it. So, they built this agentic system.
They even have a character for it. It's
called Miles and it sort of does all
this stuff. Right, they started sort of
screaming for more tokens and so on. And
so, they were saying, "Look, I we don't
need head count. We need tokens in order
to be able to manage our operation."
That reconceptualization
of what their work is, right? They They
basically took their work and made it
meta, right? That meta work is now their
new work.
>> Mhm.
>> Right, in the '80s if somebody had come
to us and said, "4 billion people are
going to get up in the morning and start
typing." My model would have been, "We
need 4 billion typists." But, we're not
doing typing. We're doing knowledge
work. So, that to me I think is it,
right? Which is whether it's Microsoft
or whether it's any organization is to
give ourselves permission to do new
types of meta cognition, meta work using
these new tools to change the outputs
that matter
and then really make the impossible
possible. So, completing that dot or
that that connective tissue across
those, I think is where a lot of the
enterprise value will get created.
>> So, you talked about the data centers?
>> Yeah, please ask.
>> Oh, okay. Well,
we this leads nicely into the data
center build out. I always think just
I'm just impressed at the sheer scale of
the build out from Microsoft, but also
everyone else that this is redefining
what it means to be a hyperscaler. And I
just feel like that that that is
unprecedented scale on finances,
on the way you run the company, but also
the communities that are that are
impacted.
Then just talk a bit more about what
you're seeing on the ground. Like when
you visit your
>> Yeah, I think there are there are two
aspects of it. Obviously the the build
out is extraordinary.
You know, nothing like this has happened
and it's great to be a one of the
participants in it. But you brought up
the other part, right? I think at this
point it's clear that unless we as an
industry
are very principled about ensuring that
the benefits of all the stuff we're
talking about are felt in real ways at
the community level, right? Because this
is not just a a campaign.
Right, it has to be real where people
are saying, "Look, this is not changing
the prices on energy for me. In fact, if
anything, it's bringing down prices
because long term there's going to be a
better grid. There is going to be more
energy. Water consumption is in fact not
sort of in fact water is being
replenished, right? You got to really,
you know, educate folks on truly what's
happening in the the closed loop systems
we're building. We have to invest in the
training, the jobs, the tax base. In
fact, the least talked about stuff is
the amount of jobs that get created
during construction, after construction,
what's the tax base that's there in the
community. And and all this has to be
real.
And and if that is the case, then we
will have permission. If it is not, we
won't have permission. It's as simple as
that, right? Which is we we I think we
have have take it as an industry pretty
seriously.
Uh I think it's good for communities to
be skeptical, ask the hard question for
us to do the hard work, earn that. Um
but at the end of the day, if this if we
can really be the produce I've always
felt like in human history, if you use a
lot of energy but also create a lot of
value for society,
the story has been fantastic. If you
don't do that, it's not been that great.
And this time around, I'm a firm
believer that ultimately, if you do have
a token economy that drives
productivity, that drives economic
growth, that drives broad-spread uh you
know, participation,
better health outcomes,
um then I think we will be in a great
place. Uh and that's at least what we
all have to be focused on.
>> Yeah. It makes me think actually that
with all these initiatives that you're
doing, might be a easier to see ROI in
the communities first before an
enterprise.
>> I I mean, I think both sides. In fact,
it comes back together. It starts to be
the people in the communities are going
to be employed, are going to be
participants
uh in the real economy, right? That's I
think the question is, like if we if the
broad economy is doing well and the
communities are doing well, the dots get
connected. It's sort of the market
forces are such that we will connect the
dots. And that I think is it. Like you
got to be able to see the evidence. You
can't be about any one company. Uh but
it has to be broad economic growth and
broad you know, community permission.
>> Yeah. What have you most updated your
thinking about currently
or what have you most updated your
personal models on regarding societal
impact of AI?
>> So, you're saying what's the
the
>> What have you updated most on in terms
of societal impact of AI?
>> Yeah. I think the um
the
the most um
critical thing is the first question we
even started with, which is we need to
tell
the story and make it real
that everybody has a real shot to
participate as a first class participant
in this new economy. And that's kind of
I think in the next 12 months, 18
months, we need a way for people to say,
"Oh, wow, I get it." Right? There's
going to be tremendous capability,
tremendous amount of infrastructure,
but I can see what is going to happen
whether it's the benefits like health
outcomes or my ability to create a
startup or my ability to run my local
sort of store more efficiently. It's
just happening and I see that benefit
myself. Right? That to me
you know, earning that permission in a
path-dependent way, we can't wait. See,
the one thing you I've now learned is I
think the world is going to be way
skeptical of tech and tech companies
that say, "Trust us.
We've got it. The future is going to be
glorious."
Uh you kind of have to deliver tangible
benefits. Um
and but frankly, politicians winning
elections
because they have advocated for that.
That will be at least my adjustment
because without it um
thinking that somehow because it's too
important to summarize. It's too much of
the economy for it not to be the case.
>> So, one very simple framework I have
for, you know, what are what is going to
be the broad benefit of AI um
beyond the communities just working in
technology
uh are sort of wealth creation. It's
going to happen in a ton of different
companies, startups and large companies.
Then you have health care. You had
amazing demos today. There are companies
like Open Evidence. I think that is
happening. Um education seems like
another one that's an obvious good where
we haven't seen as much impact as I'd
expect. Do you have a hypothesis on why
that might be or if it'll come?
>> Yeah, I mean I think this is where again
how we think about education, how you
know, recently I met with uh the
founders of Alpha School and learned a
lot about what they were going and going
about. And it is fascinating to listen
uh to how do you even rethink
uh what is education really look like?
Because I think it's actually very
important. Uh and I'm not saying
anything traditionally being done is
less important, right? I was even
looking at the uh it's fascinating to
see I I forget the which Stanford class
it was. Uh the the Asian guidelines for
CS something. Uh
because you still need people to learn.
Uh like it was an interesting AI class
that they were making sure people were
learning how to apply softmax
appropriately versus saying, "Hey, fix
my training run." Uh so I think learning
concepts is important. It's going to be
a critical. But the way we create the
incentives, what are the credentials,
how we value those credentials, what is
the employment opportunity for those
credentials. So I think that there is a
complete change that has to happen
uh given the way to get to information,
way to educate yourself, way to
continuously keep yourself updated has
changed so much. So I think
interestingly enough maybe the next big
startup and success story could be
someone who builds a new university um
or a new um
pedagogy even of how to get someone to
go through a curriculum and find
economic opportunity uh that's highly
valuable.
>> Well, that has felt uh
perhaps impossible for a long time, but
it's a great note to end on and
something that might be possible. Yeah.
Thank you, Saadia.
>> Thank you so much. Thank you. I
appreciate it. Thank you all.
>> Find us on Twitter at No Priors Pod.
Subscribe to our YouTube channel if you
want to see our faces. Follow the show
on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever
you listen. That way you get a new
episode every week. And sign up for
emails or find transcripts for every
episode at no-prior's.com.